At this point, let's use the strategy we just learned to add a delete option for each row so you can
imagine there's an extra column here with maybe a red X that you click on to delete that pet.
To do that, let's jump in to our template file and let's look for the very beginning of the overall
table.
So this first row has all of the labels.
Let's add a label at the very end that says delete.
Now, I would only want to show this to admin users so you could use and say if parentheses curly brackets
for the condition, it would just be if current user can administrator exit here, enter before the
curly bracket.
And then I would just say for a table header and just say delete.
OK, now we also want to add an extra row to the dynamic row that gets output for each pet.
So if we scroll down just a little bit after this last TD, we would just add one more TD in between
the opening and closing TD all dropdown just so we have a little bit more space to work with.
And inside it, let's have a form, some form tab for the action we can go into and just echo escape
you rl in those parentheses a admin RL and give that a value of admin post http.
Once again, let's also give the opening form tag a method of post.
OK, now in the actual HTML form tag, let's have a hidden input.
So input hit tab, change it to hidden it just like we did before.
We know that its name needs to be exactly action, but then it's value we get to make that up.
So let's call it delete pet.
OK, blow this, let's have another hidden input that contains the ID number of the pet that we want
to delete.
So just input, let's set it to hidden, let's set its name.
We get to make this up.
How about ID to delete and I'll just give it a value of going to be and I'll just echo our pet items.
A dollar pet.
Look inside it for ID below this.
Let's have a button that you actually click on to perform the delete or submit this form I should say.
So button it tab just an uppercase X for visual styling.
You can give it a class of delete pett button.
And again for visual styling we can give this overall to a style of text align center.
And let's not forget that this entire TD should really only be shown if you're an administrative user.
So I would just cut that entire TD into my clipboard, wrap it in an IF statement.
So in P if parentheses curly brackets if would be current user can quotes administrator exit P there.
Go back into P here in between we can just paste in our clipboard.
OK, let's give this a save and see what it looks like.
Perfect, so now when you click the delete button for one of these, it's going to send a request to
admin post with the action that we want to perform, which is delete and will have the I.D. of the exact
item to delete.
So let's just go right.
That function and action hook now.
So back in our main file, up at the top, we would just add another two actions.
So you could actually just duplicate these two lines for create pet, just copy and paste them right
below and just change it from create pet to delete pet.
So the action hook name and the function that we want to call, we can create a function called delete
pet.
Change that for this no priv line as well.
So delete pet the method we're calling delete pet.
I would just then create a function right below the function.
Delete pet parentheses, curly brackets.
Actually to save a good amount of typing, let's just duplicate the create pet function and reuse it.
So I'll just copy the entirety of create pet.
Let's get rid of delete pet and just paste in our clipboard.
Change the function name to delete pet.
So I'm happy with this if else structure.
But if the user has permission we don't need to generate a random pet.
I do still want to sanitize an incoming value though.
So let's change in this area when we're looking at the incoming post request, change the quoted item
that we're looking for to be I.
D to delete and then let's save that into a variable simply called dollar sign ID.
OK, we still want to make the global WP DB available instead of using its insert method.
We want to use a method called delete.
First argument is still the table.
We're working with the second argument.
Well, we'll just give it an array with just one property of IDE and set its value to dollar sign.
I'd write the one that we want to delete.
Finally, just a little bit of security when it comes to the redirect and we should actually go ahead
and do this for our example as well.
Instead of just WP redirect, we should use a function called WP Safe.
Underscore, redirect.
Let's do that for the else block as well.
So WP safe redirect.
And then any time you're using redirect, it's always a good idea after it to call exit.
Now instead of calling exit once after this line and once after this line, we could just include it
once after the if else block right here and say exit, let's do the same thing for create pet.
So just change WP redirect to safe redirect.
This function essentially checks the Eurail that we're redirecting to to make sure that it's a local.
You are well on our own website and then after both the IF and the else we can just call exit, let's
go ahead and save this and test out our delete functionality.
So I'll refresh my front end so we can see that my first entry, if I'm not performing any attribute
queries, just the basic URL.
My first entry is called Stylish Princess the Fifth.
If I click this delete icon, it redirects me back and cool.
That's no longer the first item to test it out again.
You can see I currently have one hundred thousand and three items if I delete the first one.
Perfect.
One hundred thousand and two.
Just a random tip.
If you wanted this large number to add a comma after every three digits, well let's go do that.
So in our template, let's find that paragraph right above the table.
So where it says found and then the number, you can just wrap this in a function, a function called
number dash format.
So opening parentheses, closing parentheses here.
Now, if we reload, perfect.
And that is going to bring this lesson and this chapter to a close.
Now, you might be thinking, hey, we didn't finish the pet adoption feature.
Right.
There's no form that guests can fill out to control which type of pets they see in the real world.
You wouldn't actually expect people to have to manually type in their own Queretaro.
There's also no ability to edit an existing item.
And in terms of creating a pet, we're just filling in that one name field.
So the whole point of this database chapter was not to be a 20 hour course on its own where we build
a complete plug in with our own database table.
I don't believe that would make for good educational material because at the end of the day, it has
nothing to do with WordPress.
The main idea here is once you leave the comfort of the concept of a post in WordPress, it's essentially
the wild, wild West.
Right?
You're managing your own SQL statements.
You're building your own queries and commands.
And WordPress really isn't doing.
Anything for us anymore, we've taken matters so much into our own hands that it's basically not even
a WordPress course any longer and there are a billion different ways to write and SQL statements.
Hopefully, though, these examples that we've worked through have shown you that it's not rocket science
to set up your own custom database solution.
I encourage you to take the concepts we've learned here and run with them.
I think a really fun extra credit assignment would be to tie this custom database solution into custom
rest API endpoints, write something that you could leverage on the front end with client side JavaScript.
I'm not going to cover that in a chapter because I'd really just be repeating concepts that we've already
learned, just that we haven't combined in that exact fashion.
Anyways, that sort of brings us full circle into the nature of plug ins in the first place.
There's an infinite number of ways that you can combine all of these different WordPress tools and technologies.
That's the beauty of plug ins.
You'll have a million different ideas for plug ins than I will.
And there's so many different tools at your disposal to bring that plug in to life.
Having said that, I don't think a 5000 hour long plug in section would make for a very useful course.
So that is going to bring this chapter to a close.
I encourage you to keep experimenting and building new plug ins.
Let's keep things rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.